MAINTAINER HANDOFF — 2026-10-02

Baseline: SVR3COFF2PE R4S. Freeze the supplied current binaries as the known
working reference. Do not overwrite old converted binaries when adding a target.
Rebuild current names together when changing the shared runtime.

Architecture
svr3coff2pe.py owns the CLI, family selection and native PE assembly/layout.
native_ic_profile.py, native_as_profile.py and native_sim_profile.py describe
exact native inputs. native_icc_profile.py contains the original driver profile
and native runtime construction. native_relocation.py provides shared decoding
and relocation helpers. sim860-manifest.json records the simulator audit.
sim_fp_runtime.py adds the three SIM860-only precision compatibility hooks.
fat_family.py handles the separate run860/appended-i860 family.
runtime/proven_intel860_base.py supplies inherited runtime/build machinery.
build_all.py rebuilds the four current native tools. Each conversion emits an
EXE and a JSON report with hashes, patches, sections and verification results.
Original native COFF bytes remain preserved in the PE .orig386 section.

Adding a native profile
1. Inspect the input and inventory traps. Confirm architecture, entry, section
   addresses, BSS, initial break, libc allocator state and syscall ABI.
2. Fingerprint the complete input. Decode extracted text using binary-mode
   disassembly at its original VA. Do not trust BFD's interpretation of these
   historical symbols without checking raw COFF records.
3. Audit complete instructions containing absolute text addresses, including
   callbacks and signal return pointers. Verify original instruction bytes.
4. Identify indirect dispatch tables from decoded instructions and prove their
   bounds. Include instruction decoder tables and independently justified data
   function pointers. Deduplicate overlapping slots. Never relocate integers
   just because their numeric values lie in the old text range.
5. Add an exact profile using the existing modules' interfaces; register it in
   the converter's inspection and relocation selection. Keep ABI-specific code
   in the appropriate profile or runtime, not in a filename-based workaround.
6. Add an independent verifier accounting for every changed text/data byte.
   Retain layout, permissions, gate replacement and original-image checks.
7. Replay real PE code if possible, then test on Windows. Exercise error paths
   and boundary values. Treat CPU emulation as evidence, not native validation.
8. Preserve the input, manifest, report, toolchain details and live output.
   Add the target to build_all.py only when its conversion is reproducible.

Lessons / invariants
R4O removed unsafe sliding-byte pointer guesses that corrupted instructions.
Decode complete operands; do not restore the old heuristic relocation path.
R4Q pads the reserved .hdata region so small hosts retain adjacent PE sections.
Do not weaken sections_rva_adjacent to silence an error.
Historical data addresses stay fixed; native text moves to 0x500000.
The runtime translates SVR3 syscall gates and host descriptors. It is a
compatibility subset, not a full Unix kernel. Driver fork/exec/wait behavior
uses the existing snapshot/child-launch implementation; it is not general fork.

Compiler dialect
The driver supplies -astype 1 -reentrant for the PGC assembler path. Direct IC
output without these options may use an incompatible assembler dialect.
Example direct use:
  ic-pe.exe u.c -astype 1 -reentrant -asm u.s
  as860-pe.exe -o u.o u.s
The lcpp binary was inspected earlier but is not converted in this toolkit.
Do not infer complete header/preprocessor or SDK support from the small proof.

R4S precision bridge
Windows R4R fault C000008F at 0050B83F is an x87 inexact-result exception.
Intel's Unix simulator enables precision exceptions and expects SIGFPE.
R4S masks precision only inside audited single/double preparation helpers and
routes pending enabled precision through Intel's original cleanup tail at the
helper boundary. It preserves the saved control word. This is not general
Unix signal delivery. Other FP exceptions and asynchronous signals remain
unimplemented; Ctrl-C handling and full floating-point ISA coverage are unproven.

Other limits
The historical heap is bounded at 0x4f0000 for these profiles. stat and related
services are compatibility subsets; time has inherited deterministic behavior.
Unsupported syscalls may require new implementation. No performance benchmark
or complete i860 ISA conformance claim is made. The native simulator removes
the outer i860 emulation layer but does not validate every guest program.
The inherited fat-tool runtime has a separate version history; do not silently
replace a working later sim860.exe with an output from that older path.

Evidence at handoff
User Windows run: ICC invoked IC, compiled u.c, invoked PGC AS860 and produced
u.o. IC small C compilation and assembler path were demonstrated live.
2026-10-02 user Windows run: sim860-i386-pe.exe (R4S / Intel 1.1) gcd-fixed
printed GCC i860 GCD PASS and returned 0. User also ran the same gcd-fixed with
separate sim860.exe (Intel N1.3): PASS, return 0.
Local evidence: full PE instruction replays with imported Win32 APIs mocked,
independent byte audits, assembled precision bridge cases and native x87 probe.
Unicorn did not expose the original hardware precision exception, which is why
Windows testing remains essential for changes to floating-point handling.

The original GCD FAIL was a startup-check bug, not incorrect remainder math.
Tracing established r16=21 before the comparison. subu + bc rejects equality;
xor + bnc implements the intended not-equal failure check. The corrected test
also rejects expected answers 20 and 22. Earlier PASS of the incorrect check
in another simulator is not proof that its condition-code implementation is
correct; investigating that separate implementation is outside this handoff.

Resume from this baseline only for a concrete new target or failing program.
Keep profile changes and runtime changes reviewable separately. No changes to
the historical compiler's generated arithmetic were needed for the GCD fix.

Historical proprietary inputs are included as supplied for reproducibility.
Their inclusion does not grant new redistribution rights. Retain existing
copyright notices; this package does not assign a new license to those inputs.
